# matrixboard, from betz

[betz] runs the <https://hackerspaces.be/> matrix server and has this
week, inbetween repairing his Synapse install, been working on a project called
[matrixboard]. This tool is used to output the last five messages from a given
room to displayed as HTML, the idea being to display output from a specific room
as a website widget. You can see an example using [#matrix-dev]
[here](http://matrix.hackerspaces.be:1337/!XqBunHwQIXUiqCaoxq:matrix.org?color=green).

# mtxclient

Big E2E progress from [mujx], developer of the [nheko] client on his
project [mtxclient].
[As of this week](https://github.com/mujx/mtxclient/commit/7e522df71c804cbc04f38007c3958ebbb56815d3),
mxtclient is able to decrypt group events. When writing (that is, sending
encrypted messages) is complete, the idea is to migrate this work back to nheko,
though mujx points out this library could be used in any client.

# opsdroid room state connector

[SolarDrew] implemented a [database module](https://github.com/SolarDrew/database-matrix) for [opsdroid] to allow Matrix room
state to be used to persist chat bot memory. (Suggestion apparently came from 
[Cadair], the human not [the place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cadair_Idris).)

The idea of using the room state to encapsulate bot data per-room was well
received, discussion in [#TWIM:matrix.org] suggests this is an estabilished practice for
some developers.

# matrix-python-sdk

No general GSOC round-up this week, [&Adam] shared the news that GSOC-student
[Zil0]'s first PR towards E2E in [matrix-python-sdk] landed on master. These PRs
are working from efforts previously contributed by [pik].

# Ruma

* https://github.com/ruma/ruma-events/releases/tag/0.10.0
* https://github.com/ruma/ruma-api-macros/releases/tag/0.2.2
* "ruma-client-api is updated to use the new macro. now we can make all the changes for spec r0.3.0"

# idlerpg, doorman

# John Spriggs bridging video
[JonTheNiceGuy] produced a helpful video describing how to use bridges for IRC,
Slack and Telegram, showing the difference between the different bridges. I
found this to be really clear and well-paced for following the many practical 
details of bridging. Watch here: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZNEzgYRLj8g>

# Fractal
Back to work after the [Hackfest][Fractal Hackfest 2018], [Fractal] have
[released version 0.1.30](https://gitlab.gnome.org/World/fractal/commit/7a26544df04e7bf42cf41bbf8cb95821873963c4),
featuring:
* Translations support
* Number of members in the room in the members button
* File storage configuration support
* Gold and Silver tags for admins and moderatos


[Some coverage](https://medium.com/we-distribute/fractal-is-a-new-messaging-app-for-the-gnome-desktop-powered-by-matrix-a4f219cb1095)
of the [Fractal] design thinking from last week, nothing new jsut a signal
boost.

# f0x account migration helper

[f0x] has started work on a tool to help migrate accounts - including across
homeservers. Right now he's working on the GUI, but check out progress at 
<https://github.com/f0x52/matrix-migrate>.

# spec roundup
The [Matrix Spec Change Proposals] list is populated, popular, and under
discussion at [#matrix-spec:matrix.org]. There are multiple 
[TravisR] is calling for attention on
[MSC1256](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/issues/1256): "Custom emoji
and sticker packs in matrix"

# Discord bridge
anoa and half-shot "finished edit passing between Discord and Matrix, as well as support for discord's custom emojis (though UX is a bit manual until TravisR's proposal goes through ðŸ˜‡"

# tulir
something?

# Brendan
https://github.com/babolivier/matrix-puppet-facebook-1to1-fixer

# DSN Traveller

# New Rooms
* [notafile] alerted us to [#synapse-py3:matrix.org] a room for discussions
specific to the python3 work on synapse.

# GSOC
Last week I promised an update on the state of the various GSOC projects in the
Matrix Ecosystem. There is activity happening but other than what's been
discussed above we'll wait a week or two for more detailed updates. Cadair suggestion before checkin 